# Project Setup Guide

## Prerequisites
- **C++ Build Environment, CMake & Python3** (if building from scratch)
- **Docker** (if deploying through Docker)
- This repo has been tested in Ubuntu 22.04. For Windows or MacOS,
deploy at your own risk.

## Docker Deployment

### Install Docker
For installation instructions, refer to [Docker's official documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

### Deploy from Built-In Docker Image
To deploy the project using the built-in Docker image, follow these steps:
1. Prepare the certificate files.
2. Use the provided [`docker-compose.yml`](../docker-compose.yml).
3. Run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker compose up [-d]
   ```
   Use the `-d` flag to run in the background.

Built-in Docker images are available at: [GitHub Packages - icyblob](https://github.com/users/icyblob/packages/container/package/flask-app).

For more details on `docker compose`, refer to [Docker's documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

### Build Your Own Docker Image
#### Clone the Project
Clone the project repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/icyblob/system_server.git --recursive
```

#### Build the Docker Image
Run the build script:
```bash
./build_docker.sh
```

Then, deploy using:
```bash
docker compose up
```

### `docker-compose.yml` Modification
Before running your Docker deployment, modify the following fields in the `docker-compose.yml` file:

**`db-updater`**
  - **Image name:** Update the `image` section with the local built Docker image.
  - **Environment variables:**
    - `NODE_IP`
    - `NODE_PORT`
    - `DATABASE_PATH`: path to database in docker container. Currently the system is
    using Sqlite3.
  - **Optional commandline arguments:** Pass arguments to `db_updater.py`. There are some
  available commandline arguments:
    - -nodeip
    - -nodeport
    - -dbpath
  
    If `NODE_IP` and `NODE_PORT` are set in the environment section, you do not need
    to pass `-nodeip` and `-nodeport` for `db_updater.py`, and vice versa. The commandline
    argument will overwrite the environment variables if they're set at the same time.
    Refer to [Qubic Network Live](https://app.qubic.li/network/live) for a full list of node IPs and ports.

**`flask-app`**
  - **Image name:** Update the `image` section with the local built Docker image.
  - **Port mapping:** Configure the `ports` section.
  - **Environment variables:**
    - Set paths for certificates in `CERT_PATH` and `CERT_KEY_PATH`.
    - `PAGINATION_THRESHOLD`: this threshold is used for default result pagination.
    If the return entries are too large, exceed the `PAGINATION_THRESHOLD`, then
    the system will paginate the results into pages.
    - `DATABASE_PATH`: same as in `db-updater`

*Alternatively, the `DATABASE_PATH` can be set for both services at the top of the 
`docker-compose.yml` file.*

## Build from Scratch

### Install Requirements

#### C++
Update and install build essentials and CMake:
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install build-essentials cmake
```

#### Python3
Install pip packages:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Clone the Project
Clone the project repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/icyblob/system_server.git --recursive
```

### Build
Run the following commands:
```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../libs/quottery_cpp
make install
```

### Run
Run these files simultaneously:
```bash
python3 app.py
```
```bash
python3 db_updater.py
```

### Test the Loading Data
Open the following URL to test:
[https://127.0.0.1:5000/get_all_bets](https://127.0.0.1:5000/get_all_bets)

## Troubleshooting

### Enable UFW (if not already enabled)
Enable UFW and allow the target port:
```bash
sudo ufw enable
sudo ufw allow [YOUR TARGET PORT]
```
Replace `[YOUR TARGET PORT]` with the target port number. Port 5000 is set by default.

Check UFW status:
```bash
sudo ufw status
```